---
title: What I Like About Fractal
date: 2020-02-26T10:25:48-05:00
tags:
  - blog-page
  - fractal
  - design systems
  - pattern libraries
  - drupal
  - design
---

At my day job we have been handed new branding guidelines. Basically everything but the logo changes. I'm primarily responsible for translating those guidelines to the web, for interpreting those guidelines and redesigning the college's main web site to match that interpretation. It's a challenge.

I've of course been hearing about pattern libraries and design systems for a while now and sometime last year I learned about [Fractal](https://fractal.build/), a tool that helps with building and maintaining pattern libraries. It's really nice. It feels rare to find a tool that kind of does exactly what I want in exactly the way I want, and Fractal does that for me.

I've been trying to capture my amateurish thoughts about what I like about Fractal, and, by extension, the entire concept of pattern libraries:

- Speed of development. Designing or redesigning things in Fractal is fast. While I could pop open a local copy of Drupal and start tinkering away directly at the theme code, trying to make things look new, I can't imagine doing that now. And I've spent time doing that, plenty, in my career, whether out of need or ignorance or both. Cutting out the CMS rendering pipeline from the design workflow is a game-changer in terms of iteration speed.
- Designing in the browser is nice. I've always liked designing in the browser, maybe based off some pencil sketches or fiddly mock-ups in other programs, but seeing real live web code translating into real live web things in a real live web browser has long felt to me like the right way to do things.
- Closer to component-based reality. This is me being optimistic, at least; our Drupal theme is more content type dependent than component-based at the moment, but I'm hoping I can steer the ship in a new direction, which should help reduce code reuse and generally simplify things. A listing item is a listing item is a listing item, after all.
- Provides a check against duplication. As I'm still getting into a pattern library mindset, it was interesting to see how I was able to react to a recent case where I found myself copy-pasting code from one component to another, before I realized that, yes, that bit should just be its own simplified subcomponent.
- Reduce inconsistency. This is related to the last two, definitely, but I'm also hoping it helps with introducing design concepts to other team members and allowing them to tap in to the library for additional uses, without feeling like anyone needs to create entirely new versions of things that exist already.

[This post at Smashing Magazine](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2018/07/pattern-library-first-css/) is a great introduction to using Fractal. I've created [a quick start repo](https://github.com/darby3/ready-set-fractal) that is basically what Rachel Andrews put together on Smashing Magazine, but instead of using Gulp, I use npm scripts.
